---
layout:     post
title:      Day 1 | A fresh start.
date:       2020-07-29 23:45:00
summary:    MMR - Unranked
categories: sc
---

I'll use this blog to keep track of my progress in Starcraft 2. 

There won't be goals, as that would add unneeded pressure to playing the game. Instead, I'll work on a system and adapt it as I learn more.

If I look at Starcraft as a general skill, a few over-arching concepts pop up:

1. Theory - understanding the game itself, knowing what to do and when;
2. Practice - being mentally and mechanically able to apply the theory I've learned;

Yes, theory and practice! There's little more to it than this. Learn concepts, and practice applying them until I can tackle new concepts without forgetting old ones.

So, how do I make a system out of this? 

For starters, I want to play on a daily basis. Therefore, this will be a daily system that aims to boost my knowledge in SC2 theory and my mechanical / mental ability to perform in actual games. Which activities relate to each of these two?

Theory
- Reviewing my own replays
- Requesting replay feedback on Reddit / Discord
- Asking questions that I can't answer by myself on Reddit / Discord
- Watching educational content (e.g. Vibe videos or pro player replays)
- Reading educational content (e.g. Reddit posts / Discord messages)
- Maintaining a journal of learned concepts (this blog!)

Practice
- Playing 1v1
- Practicing build orders / macro / micro in Custom Games

This list may make it seem like Starcraft is heavily theory-oriented, but there's plenty of educational content telling me otherwise. The theory, while vast, doesn't seem overly deep or hard to follow. Some units counter others, and there's a fair number of popular build orders that need to be studied to correctly adapt in-game. Actual gameplay, however, is incredibly intense, with many mechanical mistakes and delays happening even at the highest of levels. In other words, a less knowledgeable player can destroy their opponent by being fast and mechanically capable.

So, how do we balance theory and practice? Vibe is very clear about this in his videos: learn as little theory as I can to enable practice, and begin practicing right away. I have experience in other mechanically intensive competitive games (competitive guideline Tetris is great!), and that same thought is echoed: there is no point in learning all the cool strategies and tactics if I don't have the speed to enable them.

Let's simplify my activities to better reflect this:

Theory:
- Review my replays
- Consume educational content
- Interact with community
- Keep a journal

Practice
- Play 1v1
- Practice mechanics in Custom Games

That's easier to grasp! These activities are all aimed at improving my basic mechanics, and a system is beginning to take form. Interacting with the community was put in there because it will help me stay motivated and attached to the game - improving in 1v1 is quite the lonely journey otherwise.

Given my current lifestyle, let's take a look at how and when I could perform each of those activities.

- Review my replays
Sites like http://sc2replaystats.com/ could help me with this, but watching the replays themselves would need me sitting at my PC outside work hours.

- Consume educational content
This can be done pretty much anywhere, especially in small doses.

- Interact with community
Same as above.

- Keep a journal
While I could write anywhere, I like to spend part of the evening on this, it's relaxing.

- Play 1v1
Definitely need my PC and free time for this.

- Practice mechanics in Custom Games
Ditto.

This means there's 3 overall groups we can split these into:
- A: Consume educational content; Interact with community
- B: Practice mechanics; Play 1v1; Review replays
- C: Keep a journal

And that's a system! A, B and C are 3 groups of activities I should perform on a daily basis if I want to see improvements in Starcraft. I won't set times for these yet, but I'll try to keep a record of how much time I'm spending on them as the days go by.

This post wound up a bit longer than I expected it to. Bye!